### The Worlds I See: Curiosity, Exploration, and Discovery at the Dawn of AI: Dr. Fei-Fei Li

I took a fairly long time to finish this book. I remember starting it in the month of August last year right before I planned to give my final doctoral defence. This book majorly focuses on two aspects: (a) struggles in the life of a US immigrant, and (b) life as an academic researcher/scientist. I believe researchers in the academic world (& especially an immigrant who stepped in the US for the first time) would be able to highly relate to most of the experiences shared by Dr. Li. Based on the past experiences that people have expressed thorugh time, newly recruited faculties go thorugh tremendous levels of pressure in setting up their own labs, hiring quality grad students, finding a niche research topic, and then developing a very strong research program in the field that amazes all the interested experts. All of these have been beautifully shared by Dr. Li where she especially highlihgts how holding onto one "idea" could change the face of academic research forever. Dr. Li focused on the "dataset" aspect within the field of AI. Not to my surprise, this idea was "built" over time with the help of grad students, postdocs, and other experts. The idea of releasing a large-scale dataset got cemented through several experiences, conference presentations, and often hard critiques, which later on proved to be one of the major aspect that drove AI and deep learning research. I highly recommend this book to those who are willing to believe in the power of an "idea."
