---
layout: post
title: The future of precision agriculture
date: 2022-11-30 09:56:00-0400
description: 
tags:
categories:
---

Recently, I was in a debate with a friend who seems to carry a negative impression on the use
of technology to automate traditional farming practices. As I went deeper into the conversation, I
realized that his arguments were specifically targeting the application of drones that promises to monitor
agricultural farms by generating humongous amount of data. According to him, only humans are a best
fit to be tasked with crop monitoring or site-specific application. Unlike machines or robots, humans
can be relied for smart decision-making ability in the real-world scenario. As a counter reasoning,
I presented my perspective on how present technologies are shaping the future of farming without
disrupting the environment or rather in several cases they are smarter and faster in accomplishing tasks
that demands automation due to its repetitive nature.

Back in the early 1980s, the founding principle behind developing Precision Agriculture (PA) tech-
nologies hinged on the fact that these technologies will be engineered to make farming practices more
accurate and controlled when raising livestock or growing/monitoring crops. This principle in itself was
so objective that engineers had to think and design technologies that could treat areas based on three
significant factors: right location, right amount, and right time. To accomplish all the 3R’s, a
computer decision making systems was supposed to be designed that would imitate humans in terms of
making decisions on-the-go. It was in the late 1990s, a tech giant named John Deere ventured into this
area and developed the first GPS-guided tractor that fetched coordinates of a location to guide tractors
on farms. **A 15,000 lbs machine was now able to make sense where it was exactly in the
field**. This technology was widely adopted by farmers that ultimately led to the rise of PA.
Today, PA is booming with varied areas of research conducted across numerous universities and
industries. What seemed impossible 50 years back is now made possible due to advancements made in
deploying agricultural robots for planting, harvesting, weeding, spraying, etc. Thanks to advanced
technologies like, Deep Learning, Computer Vision, and Motor Control approaches. A
decade back on one would have imagined a flying saucer (drones at 32 ft altitude) that could be used
to classify weeds amongst crop plants and subsequently spray herbicide as needed. With the help of
complex designed sensors, crop yield and various soil properties can be estimated eliminating the need
to perform traditional and arduous laboratory analysis. Application of cutting-edge technologies such
as, cloud or edge-based computing is helping farmers know the status of their crops on-the-go. In short,
this is exactly where the PA is headed towards in the near future.


My personal take on the future of PA science and technology is this: I believe that PA is a con-
glomeration of various other engineering and science discipline applied on an agronomic
field. It uses the skillset from computer science for designing intelligent algorithms, complex sensors
from electrical engineering domain, actuating a nozzle for spraying mechanism from mechatronics en-
gineering, and the list could be added. My goal as a researcher who aspires to work closely with the
PA domain in the future is to continuously think and innovate PA technology by learning skillset from
various engineering discipline. **As an agricultural engineer, my goal is not to eliminate humans
with robots but to make their work easier by helping them collaborate with technology
through automation**. By doing this, I perceive that technologies like drones can favor in assisting
farmers in making smart decision through big data and not disrupt the environment.
